# Working with a Multisig Wallet


---
# What is a multisig wallet?

A wallet is a place you store value.
Ethereum wallets are things that hold the ability to sign transactions approving the transfer of value assigned to them.
External accounts are private keys, which can be used to sign transactions.
Off-chain software wallets like Metamask facilitate signing transactions with private keys, which they help manage for that purpose.
On-chain wallets are smart contracts with their own address, which handle transactions in lieu of the external account(s) that own it.

???
The first multisignature cryptocurrency wallet was launched in August 2013 by BitGo.

Despite the name, multisignature in bitcoin is just a tuple of distinct user's signatures, not a single entity.

ref: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multisignature

---
# Why multisig

* Agreement of multiple parties
 * "Any"
 * "At least"
 * "All"
* Extra security for a single party

---
# Consensus on transactions

Consider a multisig wallet with 3 "owner" addresses authorized to approve transactions.

We can allow ANY ONE owner to approve any transaction.
We can also require AT LEAST TWO (simple majority) to approve any transaction.

Why is this useful?

---
# Oops

Right now, for an external account holding funds, if you lose your private key... you lose your funds, permenantly.
If someone gets one of your private keys
But what if you had 3 keys, and any 2 would be sufficient?

---
# Consideration: memnonics and key generation

If you generate your private keys with mnemonics, EACH MULTISIG KEY SHOULD BE GENERATED BY A DIFFERENT MNEMONIC.
Otherwise you still have a single point of failure.

---
# Example: Gnosis Multisig wallet

https://github.com/Gnosis/MultiSigWallet

Components:
* Smart contracts: https://github.com/gnosis/MultiSigWallet/tree/master/contracts
* Front end: https://github.com/gnosis/MultiSigWallet/tree/master/dapp
* Desktop client binaries: https://github.com/gnosis/MultiSigWallet/releases

---
# Gnosis MultiSignature Wallet Features

* Can hold Ether and all kind of tokens with multisig support
* Easy to use offline signing (cold wallet) support
* Integration with web3 wallets (Metamask, Mist, Parity, etc)
* Transaction data and log decoding, makes transactions more readable
* Interacting with any contracts with UI support
* Hardware wallet support (Ledger Wallet)
* Optional email notifications when an event is triggered or you are required to sign a transaction

???
ref: https://github.com/Gnosis/MultiSigWallet

---
# Caveats
This implementation does not allow the creation of smart contracts via multisignature transactions. Transactions to address 0 cannot be done. Any other transaction can be done.

---
# Deployed instances with significant funds

* Aragon 0xcafe1a77e84698c83ca8931f54a755176ef75f2c
* Bancor 0x5894110995b8c8401bd38262ba0c8ee41d4e4658
* Golem 0x7da82c7ab4771ff031b66538d2fb9b0b047f6cf9
* MysteriumDev 0x7e6614722614e434c4df9901bab31e466ba12fa4
* District0x 0xd20e4d854c71de2428e1268167753e4c7070ae68

---
# Installing

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/gnosis/MultiSigWallet.git
$ cd MultiSigWallet
$ npm install
```

???
ref: https://github.com/ConsenSys/MultiSigWallet

---
# Deploy

```shell
$ truffle migrate <account1,account2,...,accountN> <requiredConfirmations>
```

---
